docs(prometheus) add new options for 3.0 (#4183)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/prometheus/1.6.0.md

---
name: Prometheus
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 1.6.0

> desc: Expose metrics related to Kong and proxied Upstream services in Prometheus exposition format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
desc: Expose metrics related to Kong and proxied upstream services in Prometheus exposition format
```

description: |

>   Expose metrics related to Kong and proxied Upstream services in [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) exposition format, which can be scraped by a Prometheus Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Expose metrics related to Kong and proxied upstream services in [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) exposition format, which can be scraped by a Prometheus Server.
```

type: plugin
categories:
  - analytics-monitoring
kong_version_compatibility:
  community_edition:
    compatible:
      - 2.8.x
  enterprise_edition:
    compatible:
      - 2.8.x
params:
  name: prometheus
  service_id: true
  route_id: false
  protocols:
    - http
    - https
    - tcp
    - tls
    - grpc
    - grpcs
  dbless_compatible: 'yes'
  dbless_explanation: |
    The database will always be reported as reachable in Prometheus with DB-less.
    Additionally, the DB entity count metric (`kong_db_entities_total`) is not
    emitted in DB-less mode.
  config:
    - name: per_consumer
      required: false
      datatype: boolean
      default: '`false`'
      description: |
        A boolean value that determines if per-consumer metrics should be
        collected.
        If enabled, a `kong_http_consumer_status` metric is added to
        exported metrics.
---

Metrics tracked by this plugin are available on both the Admin API and Status

> API at the `http://localhost:<port>/metrics`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API at the `http://localhost:PORT/metrics`
```

endpoint. Note that the URL to those APIs will be specific to your

> installation; see [Accessing the metrics](#accessing-the-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation, see [Accessing the metrics](#accessing-the-metrics).
```

> This plugin records and exposes metrics at the node level. Your Prometheus
> server will need to discover all Kong nodes via a service discovery mechanism,
> and consume data from each node's configured `/metrics` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin records and exposes metrics at the node level. Your Prometheus
server must discover all Kong nodes via a service discovery mechanism
and consume data from each node's configured `/metrics` endpoint.
```

## Grafana dashboard

Metrics exported by the plugin can be graphed in Grafana using a drop in
dashboard: [https://grafana.com/dashboards/7424](https://grafana.com/dashboards/7424).

## Available metrics

> - **Status codes**: HTTP status codes returned by Upstream services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Status codes**: HTTP status codes returned by upstream services.
```

  These are available per service, across all services, and per route per consumer.

> - **Latencies Histograms**: Latency in ms, as measured at Kong:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Latencies Histograms**: Latency (in ms), as measured at Kong:
```

>    - **Request**: Total time taken by Kong and Upstream services to serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Request**: Total time taken by Kong and upstream services to serve
```
